We warmly welcome all of you to this month's broadcast.
Here is just a taste of what we can look forward to on the program.
A life spent in the full-time ministry is both exciting and challenging.
We'll meet a brother and his wife who have spent decades in various forms of this service.
What lessons can we learn from their experiences?
Then we'll hear the story of a woman who struggled for years with severe drug addiction.
What would help her eventually break free?
And our new music video will help us feel the brotherly love we enjoy as a part of Jehovah's organization.
There's certainly plenty to enjoy on this August 2018 edition of JW Broadcasting.
The theme for this month's program is appreciating our gifts and men.
Who of us does not enjoy being given a fine, well-chosen gift?
For example, you brothers, do you not take pleasure in receiving a colorful but tasteful 100% silk tie?
Are you sisters? Do you not delight in being given an exquisite, charming silk scarf?
But what if you took that silk tie or silk scarf and used it to polish your shoes?
How do you think the giver of your gift would feel if he saw you using his gift in that way?
Obviously, it would be misused and disrespect for the gift and would insult the giver.
What is the point of our illustration?
Will Jehovah and Jesus have given us a fine, well-chosen gift in the form of the elders?
But as we will discuss, all of us must make sure that we always show appreciation and respect for this divine provision.
Please turn to Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 8.
And let's read about this gift that Jehovah and Jesus have given us.
It reads, for it says, when he ascended on high, he carried away captives. He gave gifts in men.
You notice, by means of Jesus' perfect integrity, Jesus conquered Satan and his world.
As a world conqueror, figuratively, he has plundered captives and has given them his gifts to the congregations.
How useful are these gifts in men?
Will please look at verses 11 and 12 for the answer.
And he gave some as apostles, some as prophets, some as evangelizers, some as shepherds and teachers.
With a view to the re-adjustment of the Holy Ones, for ministerial work to build up the body of the Christ.
Notice, they would be evangelizers, taking the lead in the all-important preaching and disciple-making work.
They do not simply say to the publishers, go in the preaching work.
They say, come, come with us.
Let's work together in this never-to-be-repeated work.
They are also shepherds, protecting the flock from Satan, the murderer, serpent, dragon, and lion.
Additionally, they are teachers, feeding the flock with nourishing spiritual food.
But now we ask, how does Jehovah tell us that we should feel about these hard-working gifts in men?
Let's go to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, and let's get the answer.
1 Thessalonians 5, beginning in verse number 12.
Notice what Jehovah says.
Now, we request you, brothers, to show respect for those who are working hard among you and presiding over you in the Lord and at monishing you and to give them extraordinary consideration in love because of their work.
Be peaceable with one another.
Notice, we're told to show respect for these dear brothers.
But now, let's move to a vital question.
How can we show, demonstrate, that we do deeply respect and appreciate these dear brothers?
The first way, by whole-heartedly cooperating with them.
Please turn to Hebrews chapter 13 and verse number 17.
In this scripture describes how deep our cooperation should be.
Verse 17, be obedient to those who are taking the lead among you and be submissive for they are keeping watch over you as those who will render an account so that they may do this with joy and not with sighing for this would be damaging to you.
Notice, we are told to be obedient.
Clearly, this means that we're supposed to comply with or obey what they tell us.
Of course, that would be with a proviso, unless they tell us to do something that is unscriptual.
And, of course, that would be extremely rare.
We're also told to be submissive.
This includes the attitude with which we're to be obedient, doing so with a yielding, positive attitude.
Would it be possible to be obedient, but not submissive?
Well, what if we said, okay, I'll do what the elders suggest.
I don't want to do it, but I'll do it.
We would be obedient, but not submissive.
However, Jehovah tells us to display both of these qualities.
We should be obedient and submissive, even if what the elders are asking us to do is not the best, most efficient way to do something.
Permit me to illustrate this point.
Admittedly, the illustration is somewhat exaggerated.
But hopefully, it will make the point.
Please imagine that the elders decide that the outside of the kingdom hall needs to be painted,
and that all the publishers will be given a small two-inch paintbrush with which to paint.
Now, what could happen?
The publishers could get all upset concerning this request of the elders saying,
it is ridiculous that the elders want us to paint with a small two-inch paintbrush.
Consequently, some could start campaigning for the right for everyone to use a six-inch paintbrush.
Others might campaign for using paint rollers to roll the paint on the kingdom hall.
Still others might start trying to build support for renting and using a paint sprayer to spray the paint on the kingdom hall.
In another camp, once might champion the idea of hiring out to a contractor, the painting of the kingdom hall.
While another group is promoting the idea that the kingdom hall doesn't even need to be painted.
Now, what would be the outcome?
The congregation would be divided.
The kingdom hall would never get painted.
Publishers could end up stumbled right out of the truth.
The elders would be very discouraged.
Jehovah would be sad.
And Satan would be made very happy.
On the other hand, what if everyone humbly supported the elders?
Perhaps thinking there's no scripture that says we can't paint with a two-inch paintbrush?
In fact, Hebrews 13, 17 tells us to be obedient and submissive to the elders.
So why don't we go ahead and support the elders?
Now, what would be the outcome?
The kingdom hall we get painted.
The publishers would get to enjoy a lot of good association because they'd be working together for a long time.
The elders would be very encouraged.
Satan would be sad.
And Jehovah's heart would be made glad.
Well, what is the point of this hyperbole illustration?
Being obedient and submissive to those taking the lead is much more important than how something is done.
That is the attitude that Jehovah will richly bless.
But now, a second way we can demonstrate that we deeply appreciate these dear brothers is to pray for that.
Please note what the elder Paul urged the brothers to do for him at Romans 15, verse number 30.
Here Paul said,
Now, I urge you, brothers, through our Lord Jesus Christ and through the love of the Spirit that you exert yourselves with me in prayers to God for me.
Paul recognized the power that he would derive as a result of others praying for him.
And your local elders feel the same way.
But the question is, in your personal private prayers, do you regularly thank Jehovah for your gifts and men and entreat Jehovah to richly supply them with his powerful Holy Spirit?
Our answer to that question can reveal much about our appreciation for these hardworking elders.
Now, let's move to a third way that we can demonstrate deep appreciation.
We can do so by commending the elders.
Here is a soul searching question.
Do you periodically go up to various elders and say something like,
Brother Elder, we just want to thank you for your hard work.
Please be assured that we appreciate it.
However, it seems that some publishers never, ever commend the elders or express appreciation.
Might this not indicate that we are taking them in their hard work for granted?
Of course, they will not quit if you do not give them commendation.
They primarily do their work for Jehovah.
But if you do express appreciation, believe me, it will be most encouraging to them.
And even though it may really surprise the elder the very first time you do this, please do not hold back this good from those to whom it is owing.
Appropriately, Jehovah tells us that Proverbs 327 do not withhold good from those to whom you should give it if it is within your power to help.
And one thing that will move us to be more aware of commending the elders is to remember all the good work they are doing.
Many elders are family men who must work securely to provide for their families.
If he has children, these young ones need time and attention from their father.
He may need to help them with their schoolwork, as well as schedule time for them to enjoy wholesome recreation.
Most important, he cares for the spiritual needs of his family.
Regularly conducting family worship, working with them in the ministry and taking them to meetings.
But in addition to these numerous responsibilities common to many of us, they have voluminous additional responsibilities as elders.
And much of the elders' hard work in our behalf is not seen by the congregation.
For example, you may see an elder giving a part on the meeting.
What you didn't see are the hours he spent preparing that part.
How long does it take you to prepare a student assignment on the midweek meeting?
Some elders have a part every week, sometimes more than one.
While gaining experience and speaking is certainly helpful, the fact remains that good talks require hard work.
But that is not all the elders do.
They have shepherding costs to make, and judicial cases to handle.
Some elders are also busy helping to build kingdom halls and branch facilities, serving on hospital liaison committees, volunteering at assemblies and conventions.
And elders do many other things that are too numerous to recount.
What we see is often only the tip of the iceberg.
90% of an iceberg is unseen underwater.
At 2 Timothy 4-6, the Apostle Paul referred to himself as being poured out like a drink offering.
A drink offering was poured on the altar and went up in smoke.
That well describes how the elders likewise expend themselves.
Remembering all of this should move us to regularly offer sincere commendation to our hardworking elders.
Now, we have discussed ways that we can demonstrate that we deeply appreciate our gifts and men.
We should, number one, wholeheartedly cooperate with them.
Number two, pray for them.
Number three, commend them.
We will prove that we are not even slightly like an unappreciative recipient of a silk tie or a silk scarf who uses that gift to polish his use.
To the contrary, we will prove to Jehovah and Jesus that we love respect and appreciate the divine gifts or gifts and men
that they have so generously given to us.
But now, what effect can these gifts and men have on individuals who have strayed from Jehovah and his organization?
What actions show that they are loving shepherds who want to assist these ones to return to Jehovah despite serious struggles or even addictions?
Let's look for those answers in the following story.
Turn your life around so that seasons of refreshing may come from Jehovah himself.
Those words changed my life and they saved the life of my little girl.
I was raised in a witness family but I chose a dark underworld of practically everything that Jehovah hates.
After about 15 years, although financially secure, I was confronted with the failure that my life had become.
I was trying to raise a child while addicted to drugs.
I just didn't want to live like that anymore and I wanted to be a good mother.
So for the first time in years, I prayed to Jehovah.
The knot came on my door the very next day.
I began studying with a vengeance.
I had 15 years to catch up on.
I had a lot of help.
I progressively changed my lifestyle.
I changed my associates and I conquered my addictions.
I slowly began to overcome feelings of worthlessness.
So none of these changes were easy to make but it made me feel clean and happy knowing that Jehovah was pleased.
My burning desire at that point really was to begin sharing with other people what I was learning.
But I didn't qualify to engage in the public ministry because I was still living with my boyfriend at the time and he didn't understand some of the changes I was making.
I was determined to turn my life around and overcome this last hurdle that was preventing me from serving Jehovah fully.
Two weeks later, I found out I was pregnant.
I was devastated. I didn't know what all those people who had helped me, what they would think, and how Jehovah felt about what was happening.
I was so ashamed.
I actually blamed Jehovah for letting it happen.
I was so confused.
My first inclination was just to get an abortion.
But deep down I knew that was wrong.
I thought now everyone would know that I'm still the worthless person that I always knew I was.
At that point I just felt like giving up.
I told my aunt and uncle, who are Jehovah's Witnesses, about my situation.
They didn't judge me at all but they did offer a curious suggestion. They invited me up to Bethel for a visit.
They introduced me to an elder who was very kind and I talked to him about my situation.
I was shocked by how loving he was, so he shared with me Acts 319.
Repent, therefore, and turn around.
So as to get your sins blotted out, that seasons of refreshing may come from the person of Jehovah.
Well, he told me, I had already sinned, but why should I sin a second time?
Why should this innocent child pay for what I had done wrong?
He suggested I teach my baby about Jehovah and raise the child up to know him and have a friendship with him.
I loved that he took something that was sad and depressing for me and turned it into something beautiful.
Well, I had a new plan now. I was really determined to do everything I had to do to turn my life around in order to please Jehovah.
So eventually I qualified to become an unbaptized publisher and later I was baptized in 2010.
I gave birth to a healthy baby girl.
I already dedicated my life to Jehovah, so two of my goals are to get baptized and pioneered.
I'm as determined as ever to raise Julie up to love Jehovah and to avoid the traps that almost cost us our lives.
Describing our elders, Isaiah 322 reads, and each one will be like a hiding place from the wind, a place of concealment from the rainstorm, like streams of water in a waterless land.
Like the shadow of a massive crag in a parched land.
Did you note two key ways our gifts and men did that?
One, the elder she met at Bethel was kind and approachable.
He made her feel comfortable to express herself.
Two, he lovingly used the Bible to help her make a wise decision and avoid further calamity.
This is an excellent example of how elders can help ones who are struggling spiritually.
But in what other ways can elders be an example in their zeal for the ministry?
But what if weather conditions in our territory make this difficult?
When the elders take the lead, the rest of the congregation respond in the same way.
The example of those preaching in the Pharaoh Islands will offer some encouraging tips.
The Pharaoh Islands are also called the land of maybe.
The weather is very diverse and can rapidly change.
So when you begin in the ministry, the weather can be sunny and then 10 minutes later, you find yourself in a massive rain shower and everything gets wet.
When this another challenge, we have some severe winter storms.
So you have to be careful that your service partner or the car door doesn't blow away while you're getting out of the car.
We make sure to wear clothes appropriate for the weather.
And also to keep updated on the weather situation and to see where in your territory the weather is most suitable and then adapt.
If the weather is nice, then we try to go from house to house.
And if the weather is bad, then you can go on calls where you can come inside, meaning weather will invite you in or where the entrance is covered.
And you can plan your ministry so that if the weather gets bad, you can take visits that you know will be at home that time of day.
When the weather is poor, it's good to adjust.
Maybe you can do some telephone witnessing or letter writing.
At a meeting for pioneers, an elder reminded us that when the weather is bad, try not to think the weather is bad again.
But instead, yay, now people are actually at home.
It is a good idea to have a plan for whom you'd like to visit and what you'd like to talk to them about.
Because then when it rains or the weather is an ideal, you focus on your plan instead of thinking that now I've been out preaching for five hours in stormy weather.
I think Ecclesiastes 11-4 applies quite well to our territory.
That the one who watches the wind will not so see, and the one who looks at the clouds will not reach.
If we have to wait for the perfect weather conditions to preach, then we wouldn't be out that often.
Something else that helps to endure bad weather is to think of the first publishers in the Faroe Islands.
They fought with sea sickness, bad weather, and they had to hike over the mountains to visit remote settlements.
They overcame these obstacles, and it motivates me to overcome the challenges I'm facing today.
I remember when we came to the Faroe Islands. I looked out the window and thought, is it even possible to go out in the ministry in this kind of weather?
And then we arrived at the Meeting for Field Service and the friends with children and strollers were there, and we're positive and ready for field service.
It made me think that if they can do it, then I can too.
So we are a team of publishers and we have the weather as our challenge, and especially when the weather is bad, we encourage one another.
We really like the song, The Life of a Pioneer. It's an amazing song.
It says, in the work we endure with a sunshine or rain, because we loved Jehovah.
We really want people to get to know Jehovah. They need to know the truth.
When Jesus said that we should preach, I think that He also would have put on a raincoat and gone out to preach the good news.
We experience how Jehovah blesses our efforts when we go in the ministry, and you especially feel it when you persist in your efforts to preach when the weather isn't good.
It may be that one day you get a really nice conversation with a person about the Bible.
I also feel it gives me great joy. Paul said that the one who soes bountifully will also reap bountifully.
So if you want to sow bountifully in the Faroe Islands, you need to preach also when the weather is bad.
And we feel that we have reaped bountifully by nice return visits and Bible studies.
I feel as worth all the effort because we see that people in the territory really appreciate what they are learning.
All we do in our ministry is motivated by love for Jehovah and the people in the territory, and it won't be changed by bad weather.
It's an opportunity to show that our worship is wholehearted.
You don't just go in the ministry when everything is good and the sun is shining.
I think we have become more enduring and flexible in our ministry.
We saw the publishers were fully supporting the spirit that the elders showed and sharing the good news despite inclement weather.
Around the world, many of our brothers face severe opposition because of remaining loyal to Jehovah and maintaining their Christian neutrality.
Let's travel to Spain and hear how some of our brothers have dealt with these challenges firsthand.
Spain is a land of castles.
For the mountains of central Spain to the Mediterranean coast, castles dominate the landscape.
But there is one castle, the castle of Santa Catalina, that played a unique part in the history of Jehovah's Witnesses in Spain.
This castle, that guards the entrance to the harbor of Cadet in southern Spain, became a military prison over two centuries ago.
And this fortress tested the faith of around 300 Spanish witnesses.
The battle began in the 1960s when Spain was ruled by General Fanco, a military dictator.
Fanco wanted all Spanish men to serve the Fatherland and this meant military service.
But in Spain, there were Jehovah's Witnesses whose conscience said no.
So this castle became a battleground where Fanco's military regime fought to stamp out the Christian conscience of those young witnesses.
But times have changed in Spain.
The city of Cadet has organized an exhibition to salute the sacrifice made by those valiant witnesses.
Over 40 years after their release, some of those conscientious objectors have returned to Cadet to attend this exhibition.
At the inauguration, the mayor described them as citizens who spoke up, who presented arguments against the injustice, arguments based on peace, freedom and above all, their conscience.
Those who spent years of their lives behind bars have vivid memories of the times when this castle was their prison.
I think one of the greatest challenges was never knowing if we would be granted our freedom.
Our first sentence was for three years.
And since we still refused to enlist in the military, we were then sentenced again for another lengthy period.
So it seemed as if we had a life sentence.
We organized daily activities to keep us busy.
Mornings, we worked at our trades to earn a little money.
Afternoons, we set aside for spiritual activities.
Our preaching was unmainly by writing letters.
And in this way, some of us could even pioneer.
A few people did reply to our letters and we were thrilled to hear that some of these accepted the truth.
Of course, we also preached to other prisoners.
And a few of them became baptized witnesses.
We also studied the Bible thoroughly, both individually and as a group, which proved vital in building us up spiritually.
At first, we had to study our literature secretly.
But later, the guards allowed us to have the Bible and other publications.
As our numbers grew, all the witnesses were kept together in the same place, in the same barracks, so we could organize meetings.
We even held assemblies, including the biblical dramas.
And we loved singing kindon songs.
These songs really lifted up our spirits.
We really felt Jehovah's loving care when the brothers came to visit us.
We even had a special visit from Brother Kran Suta of the governing body.
But there were also other visits that we really looked forward to.
Many of the brothers endured years of separation from their families and fielses.
This was a real test.
But these faithful sisters wholeheartedly supported their neutral stand.
They were years that molded me spiritually.
I studied the Bible as I had never done before.
I developed the skills as a public speaker and as an overseer.
Above all, it was a time in my life when I learned to rely totally on Jehovah.
Thanks to my fervent prayers, he became my closest friend.
And he never let me down.
That was priceless.
The firm stand of those witnesses gave a powerful testimony in cadet and throughout Spain.
The rundown military prison that once tested their faith has been restored.
It is now a tourist attraction and a cultural center.
But while the castle has changed, the faith of those valiant witnesses has not.
The castle certainly tested them.
But they fought a fine fight for the faith.
And with Jehovah's help, they won the battle.
Forty years later, their victory is still giving a witness to Jehovah's name.
As we noted earlier, the Apostle Paul said that he was being poured out like a drink offering.
Similarly, these brothers, by remaining neutral, offered up a great sacrifice of praise to Jehovah despite resistance.
And as we learned by loyal endurance, they went on to be gifts in men to those in the congregations and circuits that they later served.
Other examples of gifts in men are those who serve as headquarters representatives visiting branch offices and encouraging members of the Bethel families.
For their Daniel Molchan had the privilege to visit the countries of Haiti and the Dominican Republic.
They have had some exciting spiritual developments in those lands.
On Sunday, February the 26th, I traveled to Port of Prince for the branch visit that was warmly welcomed by many of the Bethel family of 54 members.
The branch office supervises the preaching work for more than 20,000 publishers.
Although Haiti has faced economic challenges and suffered recent natural disasters, our brothers are positive and focus their attention on helping others to identify our scriptural hope.
The Haitian people should keen interest in the word of God.
Our brothers average more than 42,000 Bible studies each month.
And Haiti enjoyed a memorial attendance of more than 86,000 in 2016.
This is four times more than the number of publishers in the branch territory.
The brothers love to use the videos in the ministry.
This is made possible by the Haiti audio video teams translating the videos into their native language.
While many in Haiti speak French, the common language of the people in general is Haitian Creole.
Creole is said to be an expressive language that combines French words with the grammar of West African languages.
The number of publishers in Haiti has quadrupled since the start of Creole translation back in 1987.
The complete New World Translation Bible was released in Creole in 2015.
We met with the translation team to commend them for the good work they do.
We reminded them of the many positive results in the field ministry that have taken place since translating the Bible and our literature in Creole.
As an example, Marlene is a vendor of fruits and vegetables who was asked if she would supply some of her produce to Bethel.
Although she was very impressed the first time she arrived at the Bethel property, she said she found the large steel gate to be intimidating.
So she prayed to God to protect her while in the yard at Bethel.
The brothers dealt kindly with her when she made her deliveries on Monday each week.
One of the brothers from the kitchen told her that maybe someday she too would become one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
She accepted an invitation to the memorial.
And despite some personal challenges such as not being able to read well, she began to attend some congregation meetings.
Marlene could see the difference between Jehovah's loving people and those in her church.
A study was started with her and she progressed to the point of baptism in 2009.
Since then, she has worked diligently to teach the truth to her children with good results.
Her oldest son graduated from the School for Kingdom Evangelizers and serves as an elder and temporary special pioneer.
Recently, another for sons was appointed ministerial servant and the four other children are unbaptized publishers.
Having our literature in Creole and with the help of her children, she has improved her reading.
She now benefits from reading the Bible in Creole, the language of her heart.
Good results are beginning to be seen in the field of American Sign Language, which is now used in Haiti.
There are now 87 deaf publishers in four ASL congregations and eight groups.
The congregation here is singing praises to Jehovah.
Even her little sister is learning to do this.
This brother showed us the effort he puts forth to prepare for a Bible reading.
A special program for Haiti was held on Saturday morning at the open-air assembly hall on the branch property.
A total of 1,405 were in attendance.
We were very encouraged to see the group of our brothers who benefited from the program in American Sign Language.
The program was recorded and presented at Kingdom Halls throughout the country later that same day and also on Sunday to a combined audience of 34,812.
We felt a little sad to leave the brothers on Sunday morning for a drive of about six hours or so to the Dominican Republic where the second branch visit.
In route, we traveled through some semi-airid areas to the border between the two countries.
The terrain varied greatly as we drove through small mountains, rich agricultural regions, and along the Caribbean Sea.
We took the opportunity to witness to some individuals at the border and at various checkpoints leaving literature along the way.
Upon entering the city of Santo Domingo, we quickly identified the large JW.org sign at the branch office.
We were enthusiastically greeted by many of the 73 Bethel family members.
Although the preaching work is done primarily in Spanish, our brothers are expanding their ministry to reach the language of the hearts of many people
and cultures. There are now five Haitian Creole circuits in the branch territory, 26 American Sign Language congregations, and other congregations or groups in Russian, Chinese, Italian, and French.
We joined a group of brothers and sisters in the field ministry in the Chinatown District of Santo Domingo.
Our group gave a witness to both Spanish and Chinese speaking people on the streets, most of whom respectfully listened to our message.
A Bethel brother, Evan, told us of the challenge he faced when learning the truth.
I was finishing medical school while serving in the Dominican Army.
By then, I had been serving for six years. At my aunt's home, I found the Revelation book.
It made such an impact on me that I stole it and read it all on my own.
There's a vision in Chapter 6 of Revelation, where the sixth seals open and the sky's darken and the army commanders hide in caves.
That vision impressed me so much that I decided to serve Jehovah. That meant that I would have to leave the army because witnesses are neutral.
I quickly decided to talk to my immediate commander to ask him to please discharge me from the army.
However, he rejected my request and said, no, you have served in the army for six years. You have to stay in the army.
I was not concerned because I could still appeal to the colonel and charge of personnel. However, my request for resignation was rejected again.
I left and went to the hallway. I prayed to Jehovah. I want to serve you. What should I do? Help me find a way out of this.
When I opened my eyes, another army officer approached and greeted me using my name. I still don't know who he is. He asked me, what do you need?
I explained that I wanted to resign in order to become a Jehovah's Witness. He said, don't worry, give me your papers. I'm the colonel's assistant.
Within 20 minutes, my discharge papers were ready and approved. In a short period of time, I became a publisher and I got baptized as one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
At this time, I've been serving happily and Bethel for over 11 years with my wife, Hyell.
Without a doubt, Jehovah helps those who put their complete trust in him. The branches blessed to have as part of their Bethel family, some who had been long-time missionaries.
I enjoyed a very pleasant visit with five of the senior members of this group, three of whom are 98 years of age.
Brother William Dingman is the first class of Gilead. His wife Estelle attended the 12th class. Thelma Crites is also the 12th class.
Barbara Parker is the 42nd class and Helen Ferrari attended the 2nd class of Gilead.
To illustrate the length of their full-time service is the fact that Sister Ferrari is among those who stood up to identify themselves as part of the great multitude at the 1935 Convention in Washington, D.C.
The average age of this group is 94. Even more impressive is that their average years of full-time service is 73.
These faithful ones set a fine example continuing to be active in the ministry, taking into account their ages and health limitations.
Such loyal servants of Jehovah are considered spiritual treasures wherever they may serve.
I still have one study so far, although my sight doesn't allow me to do too much, but I try. My legs aren't so good for walking, so they will me around.
In all of my life, I would consider the life that I have spent as a missionary and hearing Dominican Republic as well.
It's a wonderful life. I couldn't have chosen a better companion and also a better life than to be preaching the message of the good news of the kingdom.
The Dominican Republic Bethel family considers it a privilege to have a share in providing care for such faithful ones.
On Sunday, March 12, a special program was held at the Open Air Assembly Hall adjacent to the branch office.
A total of 3,050 benefited from the Spiritual Program in Christian Association.
The visits to the Dominican Republic and Haiti branches proved to be an encouragement and a spiritual blessing to all who participated in them.
We thank Brother Mo Chan for that report and for sharing those motivating experiences of long-time servants of Jehovah.
Another example of this is Richard and Peggy Kelsey. How has he, with the support of his dear wife, proved to be one of the gifts and men throughout his decades of full-time service?
I was born in a little town called Adair, Iowa, actually out on the farm. That was in 1930.
I was born in 1931, also in a small town in Iowa. My father wanted to be a farmer, so we moved to a farm and I grew up on a farm.
And then the watchtower study of a little group and a little congregation was in our home.
And happily, when Peggy's father came to the truth, the family, they came to our place to watchtower study.
I was, I guess, at that time eight or nine and Peggy one year younger.
But the thing was, they moved away just about after one year.
Well, I started pioneering in September 1948.
Gilead is that what I want. I didn't apply for Bethel because I like the field service.
And I thought South America, Africa, countries that still, where there was so much to do, that's what I wanted.
I was called to Gilead in 1951 in February.
The assignment after attending Gilead was a great surprise.
Brother Schroeder, one of the instructors, he said, you will have a very wonderful opportunity being assigned to the German Bethel.
There are brothers there who have been in concentration camps for up to nine years.
And you can learn very much from these brothers.
And that was very true in 1953 at the convention in New York.
I saw a beautiful young sister standing in the cafeteria line next to my cafeteria line.
And I looked twice and it was Peggy.
So we were together for the rest of the convention and decided we would correspond and think about serving together.
In 1955, we married then.
I had received the assignment circuit work.
We were assigned to Northern Germany.
When we began circuit work, I was 24.
I felt completely inadequate because I'd been serving in Bethel and had no training that would qualify me to serve as the circuit overseer.
That was my feeling.
The first place the sisters with me, they always got nervous not being able to speak correctly.
I would take over the conversation and I stood there and didn't understand anything.
But with time you pick it up.
After two years I could understand everything in the theocratic language.
But in the kitchen I was still lost.
It was nine years for circuit and the conclusion district work.
And then we were called back into Bethel.
The biggest shock for me was when Brother Nora asked me if I would be branch overseer.
And that was at the convention 1969 in Nuremberg.
Despite the different arguments that I presented and I got a letter later saying I'd have that assignment.
For about 40 years we had the wonderful privilege of doing zone work.
Of course it's now stated being representative headquarters.
So it was wonderful to visit somewhat over 90 different countries.
It became acquainted with Jehovah's lovely family.
And the worldwide brotherhood unity and seeing how the brothers everywhere are devoted to Jehovah and want to serve him faithfully under sometimes very difficult conditions.
I would say sometimes we benefited more from the visit than the brothers we were visiting because it was so faith strengthening.
When we got this privilege of traveling to many branches and zone work we were able to engage in the field ministry in numerous countries which I never would have had of course if I would have just gone into missionary service.
I said to myself except every assignment Jehovah gives you and you'll find that you have the greatest blessings possible.
Since 1st of January 1952 I've been able to keep full time services my career.
And it's something I certainly wouldn't have changed for anything else.
We have often spoken where would we be today if we hadn't taken up full time service.
Certainly we would not have enjoyed so many things as we have in our lifetime.
There are so many young talented brothers and sisters that are working and helping.
We encourage them to make full time service in Jehovah's organization their goal in life.
Are you one of those young talented brothers or sisters whom Brother Kelsey mentioned could make full time service a goal?
If so, keep it in your prayers.
Yes, as we look back at our program and the examples of various gifts in men, their wives and numerous others doing all they can for Jehovah,
what is it that motivates them to live such self-sacrificing lives?
Love and that's the theme of this month's music video entitled Brotherly Love.
Because wherever you go Jehovah's people are there and you'll feel low.
You'll feel low for Brotherly Love.
So feel the love, this is all over the nation.
What a beautiful song and a good reminder that one way we can show our love to Jehovah and Jesus
is by showing love, respect and appreciation for the gifts and men they have generously given us.
Now, before we end the program, we have a special treat.
Our postcard this month comes from right here at our JW Broadcasting Studio.
Yes, you get a sneak peek behind the scenes of how our broadcast is produced.
First, a group of brothers and sisters set aside their regular Bethelwork for parts of three days.
Early on the first day, the director reviews the shot list with crew members.
The shot list is a series of photographs showing how the cameras will record each scene.
In the control room, media is prepared for display on the studio's video screen.
The microphones and cameras are all properly adjusted.
Then the crew rehearses the entire program several times while a stand-in substitutes for the program host.
This allows the real host to concentrate on his other work during these technical rehearsals.
On the third day, the actual host reports to the studio's makeup room where wardrobe makes sure that he looks his best.
Before recording begins, the crew assembles for a brief meeting.
The host often gives a few brief comments and the floor director gives any final instruction to the crew.
After a prayer, everyone takes their positions.
Within a few hours, the entire recording for that month's program is completed.
Yes, our hard-working brothers and sisters at work in the studio happily send you their warm love and greetings.
This is JW Broadcasting from the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses.